# ICEG review committee 2020-05-28

## Participants:
- FOD BOSA: Liesbet D'Hondt, Bart Hanssens, Marc Bruyland
- FOD Financiën: Reinhilde Blondeel
- Flanders: Raf Buyle, Tony Vanderstraete
- CIRB Brussels: Serge Haquet

## Thematic on Education
Budget: 
- Flanders: ok
- BOSA: questions of financial inspector have been answered beginning of this week, waiting for final go
- French- and German speaking community: final go not yet received (as mentioned by Thierry Brouwers earlier this week)

Marc gave an overview of the relation between Single Digital Gateway (SDG), Digital Europe for All (DE4A) and this thematic.

## Preparation of ICEG meeting of 10/6 - Topic SDG
Raf explains that for SDG data standardization efforts will be necessary. Therefore the idea is to use the ICEG data standardization group to embed the data standardization efforts needed for SDG.  

Tony is preparing this topic with Pieter Vanhoutegem (BOSA coordinator for SDG) and will present it to ICEG on 10/6.

Bart explains what the European Commission put in place for this subject: the EC will assume the role of moderator and editor, while the member states will have a reporting and a contributing role.
Bart will report for Belgium. For the moment the different Belgian workgroups for SDG decide on an ad hoc basis the actions needed for data standardization. It is not yet clear how consolidation of data standards at European level will take place. Active members usually drive the direction in which we will be heading.

Raf also mentioned an interesting demo he attended , that was given by Internet Architects on the topic of a proof of concept for a citizen/company to follow-up on administrative procedures undertaken with various levels of federal/regional government services.

## Preparation of ICEG meeting of 10/6 - Topic Training on datastandards
Raf will bring this topic to the ICEG meeting. The idea is, as was already announced in an earlier communication to ICEG, to organize trainings on data standardizaion for different target groups (CIOs, business analysts and developers). The goal is to share a common vision, to adopt best practices, to build a community and in this way receive leads for new topics on data standardization.
Flanders with his OSLO initiative, already has positive experiences with this approach.

The first session is foreseen in December this year and will focus on the profile of business analyst (group of +/- 50 people). There will be an obligation to subscribe. An introductory session will be given by Seth Van Holand, program manager at ISA and professor at the ULB. This will be followed by a broad session on semantics with hopefully some concrete examples around the theme of Education. After that there will be practical sessions in groups of +/- 10 persons, guided by a coach, where practical exercices will be done with semantic models.

Raf also mentioned the idea of upscaling this effort to a European level.
(also see https://github.com/belgif/review/tree/master/Meetings/2020-05-25)

## Status URI
This week Bart and Marc had a contact with KBO around the topic of defining URI's for companies and business units in KBO. A second meeting will be needed with Sven Forster on this topic.

Practical cases where a definition of a URI would be more than welcome, were enumerated:
nacebel codes, NIS statistical codes, political persons, …

Raf will ask for a demo around local decision making and agreements, in which the topic for identification of political persons has been handled.
